<p><b>Visualization in Digital Humanities</b></p>
 
  

  <p>
<i>Prompt:
    Both Moretti and Drucker argue that visual forms (e.g. graphs, maps, etc.) can and should be used to represent cultural phenomena (e.g. the experience of temporality, rises and falls in genre, etc.). Moving between written and visual mediums of expression offers a model for the next generation of digital humanities scholarship, where readers are asked to think critically across both textual and graphical modes. As such, digital humanities scholarship should increasingly create multimodal scholarship where readers interpret both the text and any other media (such as graphs, images, audio, and so on). Creating scholarship that asks readers to interpret across multiple modes will distinguish digital humanities scholarship from scholarship in the sciences.</i>
  </p>
  
 <p> Cultural phenomena are something that can be represented in many different ways. Cultural phenomena can be represented through the use of literary work, data given in a hard to understand way, and through the use of visualization. The visualization of cultural phenomena, especially in the department of digital humanities, has been growing since it allows researchers to a different sense of perspective that merely reading an article may not give. With the rise of visualization, multimodal scholarships that distinguish the department of digital humanities from the departments of science and literature should be created to accommodate the subject, especially since many of the new “digital humanists” such as students and researchers seem to comprehend data better through the use of visualization.</p>
 <p> One of the main reasons why data visualization in the department of digital humanities is growing is because of the visual representations of data aids in the comprehension of a subject. It is done by encouraging a different type of insight that the reader may not have seen before the visualization of that data. As stated by Johanna Drucker “… rethink the foundation of the way data are conceived as capta by shifting its terms from certainty to ambiguity and find graphical means of expressing interpretative complexity.” (p. 50, pg. 20). The quote means that through visualization, readers would be able to find more complex answers that were previously unknown to most, as the visualization would allow readers to see the data presented in a more detailed and comprehensive way. A quote from Moretti also seems to explain the use of visualization as a way of competing with previous interpretations by providing a different form of insight- “… we see them challenge existing interpretations, and ask for a theory, not so much of ‘the’ novel, but as a whole family of novelistic forms. A theory-of diversity.” (ch. 11, pg. 91). Visualization also allows readers to think about both the text and displays presented to them, which is extremely useful when information needs to be researched to a deeper extent. </p>
<p> Visualization, especially data visualization, is beneficial to many studying in the department of digital humanities, especially for students or new researchers. Visualization is a relatively engaging way of presenting data to users, and it makes the previously daunting text more comfortable to comprehend for many people. An excellent example of this is from an article written by Steven Braun. Braun refers to Johanna Drucker’s article for inspiration, and in his article, Braun creates an activity to stimulate the creation and use of stimulation. The main idea of his activity is to ensure that “…participant are encouraged to think of visualizations as a form of dialogue rather than statements of a face.” (p. 16, line 1). Braun’s activity provides an excellent example of how visualization can be utilized as a handy tool for people researching digital humanities, and that using visualization can provide different perspectives of a subject to people. Another example of the importance of data visualization can be found using scholarship schools such as Voyant. As provided on the example below, Voyant can show the keywords of a research paper, essay, etc. and it gives users a better understanding of the possible concept of the paper, as well as possibly shed light on a different perspective that one might not have been able to pick up by themselves.</p>

<p><!--	Exported from Voyant Tools (voyant-tools.org).
The iframe src attribute below uses a relative protocol to better function with both
http and https sites, but if you're embedding this into a local web page (file protocol)
you should add an explicit protocol (https if you're using voyant-tools.org, otherwise
it depends on this server.
Feel free to change the height and width values or other styling below: -->
<iframe style='width: 438px; height: 370px;' src='https://voyant-tools.org/tool/Trends/?query=humanities&query=visualization&query=digital&query=data&query=department&mode=document&corpus=c2ef52cab40aa52c127a04544c94e4ab'></iframe></p>

<p> Since the conception of digital humanities as a subject and department in academic situations, there has been a constant debate on where it belongs. Many argue that it belongs in the science department, while others claim that it belongs to the humanities. Some argue that since the realm of digital humanities has expanded immensely over the years, it deserves its own department, which seems to be the most logical option. The introduction of multimodal scholarships may be the answer to separating the digital humanities from other departments, such as science and humanities. By creating multimodal scholarships that include the use of traditional text and visualization through media, students and researchers will be able to interpret ideas and data from a different perspective than science end humanity. Multimodal scholarships will also allow students and researchers to learn more about technology and how it affects the lives of many, and how these types of technology can be integrated into our society. A good idea would be to make the department of digital humanities a middle ground between the departments of science and humanities since the research and data collected from studying digital humanities can be applied to both of those departments depending on the situation.</p>

<p>To conclude, the visualization of cultural phenomena is something beneficial to the department of digital humanities. The visualization of cultural phenomena creates a different perspective for users to experience, and it is a critical factor in differentiating digital humanities from science and humanities. The use of data visualization should be used to create a multimodal scholarship for both students and researchers to look into since it provides a deeper understanding of both text and data that is provided while researching digital humanities.</p>

<p><i>Work Cited:</i></p>
<p>
<ul>
 <li>Alvarado, R. C. (n.d.). The Digital Humanities Situation. Retrieved March 8, 2020, from https://dhdebates.gc.cuny.edu/read/untitled-88c11800-9446-469b-a3be-3fdb36bfbd1e/section/c513af64-8f99-4e02-9869-babc1cecc451#p1b1</li>
 <li>Braun, S. (2018, December 4). Critically engaging with data visualization through an information literacy framework. Retrieved March 8, 2020, from http://digitalhumanities.org:8081/dhq/vol/12/4/000402/000402.html#p16</li>
 <li>Drucker, J. (2011, May 1). Humanities Approaches to Graphical Display. Retrieved March 8, 2020, from http://www.digitalhumanities.org/dhq/vol/5/1/000091/000091.html</li>
 <li>Kirschenbaum, M. (n.d.). Debates in the Digital Humanities: Chapter 1: What Is Digital Humanities and What's It Doing in English Departments?: Matthew Kirschenbaum. Retrieved March 8, 2020, from https://dhdebates.gc.cuny.edu/read/untitled-88c11800-9446-469b-a3be-3fdb36bfbd1e/section/f5640d43-b8eb-4d49-bc4b-eb31a16f3d06</li>
 <li>Moretti, F. (n.d.). Graphs, Maps, Trees. Retrieved March 8, 2020, from https://www.mat.ucsb.edu/~g.legrady/academic/courses/09w259/Moretti_graphs.pdf</li>
</p>

